---
title: "SAA-C03 Day 2 | EC2 Part 2"
date: 2024-08-08 00:00:00
categories: [AWS, SAA-C03]
tags: [EC2]
---

## EC2: purchase options
- **On Demand:** short workload, pay by second
- **Reserved** (1 & 3 years): 
  - Reserved instance: You commit to using a specific instance type, in a specific region, potentially even in a specific availability zone, for a term of one or three years.
  - Convertible Reserved Instance: You commit to a specific instance for a one or three-year term, but you have the flexibility to change the instance family, operating system, tenancy, or network type throughout the term
- **Saving Plan** (1 & 3 years): You commit to a specific amount of compute power (measured in dollars per hour) for a one or three-year term. any instance type
- **Spot Instance**: allows users to purchase unused computing capacity at significant discounts compared to on-demand pricing
- **Dedicated Hosts:** physical servers with EC2 instance capacity fully dedicated to a single customer's use (compliance, licenses)
- **Dedicated Instance:**  instances that run in a VPC on hardware that's dedicated to a single customer
- **Capacity Reservations:**  Reserve capacity in a specific AZ for any duration

## EC2: Spot Instance
### launching instance
- When you request Spot Instances, you specify the number, type, and the maximum price you are willing to pay for a specific instance.
If your bid is above the current Spot price, and there is available capacity, AWS provisions your instances.

### Interruption
- **Temporary Nature:** Spot Instances can be interrupted by AWS with very little notice if the Spot price exceeds your bid or if AWS needs the capacity back for other purposes (typically On-Demand or Reserved Instances).
- **Two-Minute Warning:** AWS provides a two-minute warning when it needs to reclaim a Spot Instance, allowing your applications some time to gracefully save the state, finish up critical tasks, or transfer jobs to other instances.

### Terminate Spot Instance
1. first cancel the spot request
2. terminated the instance

## IP
- **private IP:** unique in private network
- **public IP:** unique in global
- **elastic IP:** make sure when ec2 has an stable IP, 5 Elastic IP in one account
  - instead elastic IP: try to use a random Ip with a DNS name to it

## EC2:Placement Group
- let AWS know how would we place instance compare to another

### Cluster Placement Groups
- Instances are placed into a low-latency group within a **single Availability Zone.**
- **Use Case:** Ideal for applications that need low network latency, high network throughput, or communication that is frequently between each other, like HPC applications.

### Spread Placement Groups
- Instances are spread across underlying hardware to reduce risks of simultaneous failures.
- **Use Cases:** Suitable for applications that require each instance to be isolated from failures of other instances. Common for critical applications where each instance must be isolated from the failure of others.
- **Characteristics:** AWS limits each spread placement group to 7 running instances per Availability Zone.

### Partition Placement Groups
- Instances are grouped into partitions where each partition represents **a set of racks**, and different partition can be in one AZ. Each rack has its own network and power source.
- **Use Cases:** Ideal for large distributed and replicated workloads, such as Hadoop, Cassandra, and Kafka.
- **Characteristics:** Provides multiple distinct partitions within an Availability Zone, allowing you to spread your instances across logical partitions while ensuring that groups of instances do not share underlying hardware.

## Elastic Network Interface (ENI)
- Logical component in a VPC that represent a virtual network card
- it has primary private IP, one or more secondary IP, one Elastic IP per IPv4, a MAC address
- Bound to a specific AZ
- it will auto created upon creation of ec2, or u can attach it on fly

## EC2: Hibernate
- the RAM state is preserved
- instance boot is much faster (OS, not stopped/restarted)
- the RAM state is written to a file in the root EBS volume (must be EBS)
- EBS volume must be encrypted
- RAM size must be less than 150 gb
