---
title: "SAA-C03 Day 7 | Route 53"
date: 2024-08-12 00:00:00
categories: [AWS, SAA-C03]
tags: [Route 53]
---

## what is a DNS

### DNS Terminologies
- Domain Registrar
- DNS Record: A, AAAA, CNAME, NS
- Zone File: contains DNS Records
- Name Server: resolve DNS queries


## Route 53

### Record Type
- A - map hostname to IPv4
- AAAA - map hostname to IPv6
- CNAME - map hostname to another hostname
  - the domain name must be an A orAAAA record
  - can not create for the TLD 
- NS record -  tell the DNS resolver where to find the authoritative DNS servers for a domain


### Public vs. Private Hosted Zones:
- **Public Hosted Zone:** Manages DNS records for a domain that is accessible on the public internet. For example,
  if you own example.com, you would have a public hosted zone that handles all the records for that domain.
- **Private Hosted Zone:** Used within a private network (like an Amazon VPC) to manage DNS records that are not 
  accessible on the public internet. This is useful for internal services that don’t need to be exposed to the internet.

### TTL
- High TTL: less traffic on Route 53, but might outdated records
- Low TTL: More Traffic on Route 53 ($$) but fresh record
- Not used in Alias record


### CNAME vs Alias
- CNAME: points a hostname to any other hostname, must be non root domain
- Alias: points a hostname to an AWS Resource, works for non root and root
  - can be used in place of A records and AAAA records
  - native health check and free
  - can not set TTL, AWS default set

### Routing Policy
- it doesnt route any traffic, it only responds to the DNS query

1. Simple Policy
   - can specify multiple values in the record
   - random one will be chosen
   - if Alias is enabled, then just one aws resource be specify
   - no health check
2. Weighted Policy
   - control the % of the traffic that go to each specific resource
   - doesnt need sum to 100
   - can have health check
   - assign weight 0 to stop sending traffic
3. Latency Policy
   - Redirect to the resource that has least latency
   - latency is based on traffic between user and aws region
   - can have health check
4. Failover Policy
   - mandatory health check
5. Geolocation Policy
   - based on user location
   - should have A Default record in case no match on location
   - can have health check
6. GeoProximity
   - You specify the locations of your resources (e.g., AWS regions, on-premises data centers).
   - Bias Adjustment:
     - You can adjust the bias for each location to either increase or decrease the portion of traffic routed to that location. 
     - Positive Bias: Expands the geographic region from which traffic is routed to the resource. 
     - Negative Bias: Shrinks the geographic region, potentially reducing traffic to that resource.
7. IP based Routing
8. Multi Value

### Health Checks
- http health checks are only for public resource
- Operate at the DNS level, across global infrastructure.
- monitor an endpoint, otehr healthcheck, cloud watch
- **Private Hosted Zone**: we need to create cloud watch alarm because health check is outside the VPC

#### monitor an end point
1. Suppose you have a web server running at www.example.com.
2. You set up a Route 53 health check to monitor the www.example.com/health endpoint using HTTP.
3. oute 53 sends regular HTTP GET requests to www.example.com/health from multiple locations.
4. If the web server responds with a 200 OK status, the endpoint is considered healthy.
5. If the web server starts returning a 500 error, Route 53 will mark the endpoint as unhealthy after a set number of failed checks.
6. Route 53 can then automatically reroute traffic to a backup server or another region if you have a failover policy configured.

#### calculated health check
- Aggregates Multiple Health Checks: Combines the results of several individual health checks.
- Logical Conditions: Uses AND, OR, NOT logic to determine overall health.
- Overall Health Status: The calculated health check is considered healthy based on the combined results of the child health checks.
- Complex Monitoring: Ideal for systems where multiple components must be healthy.
- Routing Decisions: Influences DNS routing based on the overall health of aggregated components.
