---
title: "SAA-C03 Day 8 | S3 Bucket"
date: 2024-08-13 00:00:00
categories: [AWS, SAA-C03]
tags: [S3]
---

### S3 Bucket
- Buckets must have globally unique name 
- but it defined at regional level
- can host static website (must have public access)

### S3 Object
- Object (files) have a key
- Key is the full Path of the file
- Max Object SIze is 5 TB, if over 5 GB then we must use **Multi part upload** , recommend if > 100 mb
- **S3 Transfer Acceleration:** increase transfer speed by transfer file to edge location (suite for cross regional transfer) can compatible with Multi part upload


### S3 Byte-Range Fetches
- Retrieve specific **portions of an object** stored in Amazon S3, rather than downloading the entire object.
- when you make a GET request to Amazon S3, you can specify the Range header to define the portion of the object you want to retrieve. The range is specified in bytes.
- speed up downloads


### S3 Select And Glacier Select 
Allow you to retrieve and process only a subset of data from an object stored in S3 or S3 Glacier, respectively. 
Instead of retrieving the entire object, you can **run SQL-like queries** to extract only the data you need, which can save 
on data transfer costs and improve performance.
1. You can issue a SQL query to filter the data stored in an S3 object. For example, you can extract specific columns or rows that meet certain conditions.
2. The query is executed on the server side, meaning S3 processes the data and only returns the results of the query, rather than the entire object.
3. S3 Select supports common formats like CSV, JSON, and Parquet. You can also apply compression

### S3 Security
- **User based**: IAM Policy, where user can call the api
- **Resources based:**
  - **Bucket Policies**: bucket wide rules from S3 - allows cross account
  - **Object ACL**: Allows you to specify permissions for objects, overriding bucket-level permissions if necessary.
  - **Bucket ACL**: Defines permissions for the bucket itself and the objects within it by default
- An IAM Principal can access an S3 object if 
  - The user IAM permission ALLOW **OR** the resources policy ALLOW
  - **_AND_** there is no explicit DENY
- Encrypt object in S3 using encryption keys

### S3 Bucket Policy


### S3 Versioning
- Need to enable the versioning at **bucket level**
- Same key(Path) overwrite will change the version: 1, 2, 3
  - protect against unintended deletes (**deleteMarker**)
  - easy roll back (to **delete deleteMarker**)
- Any file that not versioned prior to enabling versioning will have version "null"
- suspending versioning doesn't delete the previous versions

---

### S3 Replication
- Must Enable Versioning In Source and Destination Buckets 
- Two Type : Cross Region Replication (CRR) && Same Region Replication (SRR)
- Source and Destination can be in different account
- This is Async Replication
- must give proper IAM permission to S3

#### Replication Note
- After enable Replication, only new Object are replicated
- if need replicate existing object or failed replication, using **S3 Batch Replication**
- Can replicate DeleteMarker from source to target (optionally)
- **Version-Specific Deletes:** Deleting a specific version of an object in the source bucket does not replicate the delete operation to the destination bucket.
- **Permanently Deleting Objects:** Permanent deletions do not replicate to the destination bucket, and the object will remain in the destination bucket.

---

### S3 Storage Classes
1. **General Purpose:** frequently accessed data
2. **Infrequent Access:** less frequently accessed , but require rapid access when needed
   - Standard IA : Recovery Copy DR
   - One Zone IA : used for secondary copy
3. **Glacier:** data that is rarely accessed but needs to be retained for long periods (at least 90 days), there is a Retrieval Cost
4. **Glacier Deep Archive:**  At least 180 days. more retrieve time
5. **Intelligent Tier:** Move Object automatically between Access tiers


### S3 Life Cycle Rule
- **Transition Actions:** moving object between storage class
- **Expiration Action:** delete some object be deleted in some time
- Can create the rule for **bucket level or object**
- **S3 Analytics** can help transition object , updated daily

### S3 Event Notification
can configure S3 Event Notifications to send event information to the following destinations:
1. Amazon Simple Notification Service (SNS)
2. Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS)
3. AWS Lambda

- Configure **IAM Permissions** allow S3 to send message to the destination
- Amazon **EventBridge** expands the possibilities for integrating S3 events with a broader range of AWS services and external applications. 


