---
title: "SAA-C03 Day 11 | AWS Storage Extra"
date: 2024-08-14 00:00:00
categories: [AWS, SAA-C03]
tags: [Storage]
---

### Snow Family
High-secure, portable device to collect and process data at edge, and migrate data into and out of AWS
- offline devices to perform data migrations (E.g upload to S3)
- Snowcone: 8 - 14 TB
  - AWS Snowcone can run edge computing workloads locally using lambda
- Snowball Edge: 80 - 210TB
  - Snowball Edge devices can run AWS Lambda functions, EC2 instances, and AWS IoT Greengrass, making them suitable 
    for more complex edge computing tasks. 

- Snowball to Glacier: must use S3 first, then create a lifecycle policy transfer to Glacier

### Amazon Fsx
Launch 3rd party high-performance file system on AWS

- FSx for Luster (HPC, ML, Modeling, seamless integration with S3: the files in your S3 bucket can be automatically presented as files in your FSx for Lustre file system.)
- FSx for NetApp ONTAP
- FSx for Windows File Server ( can mount on Linux EC2 instances)
- FSx for openZFS


#### Fsx File System Deployment Options
- Persistent File System:
  1. Think of this as a long-term storage option. It keeps your data safe even if you restart the system. Good for tasks that take a long time or need data saved permanently.
  2. Supports automated and manual backups, so you can always restore your data if something goes wrong.
- Scratch File System:
  1. This is like temporary storage. It’s fast and great for short tasks, but the data doesn’t stick around after the system is turned off. Use it when you just need quick, temporary storage.
  2. Doesn’t support automated backups because it’s for temporary data. You use it for quick, short-lived tasks.



 
### Storage Gateway (Hybrid Cloud for Storage)
- Bridge between on prem and cloud (S3, Fsx ..)
- Use case : DR, Backup, on-prem cache

Type of Storage Gateway
1. S3 File Gateway
   - Files stored on the S3 File Gateway are stored as objects in Amazon S3.
   -  Files uploaded via the S3 File Gateway can be accessed directly through the S3 console, API, or SDK, just like any other S3 object.
   - S3 File Gateway caches frequently accessed data locally on-premises, which reduces latency and improves performance for read operations.
   - Data written to the gateway is stored locally first and then asynchronously uploaded to S3,
   - IAM role for each File Gateway
2. FSx File Gateway
   - Local Caching
   - When you make changes to files, those changes are saved locally first and then sent to the cloud, saving bandwidth and improving performance.
3. Volume Gateway
   - upload to S3 -> EBS
4. Tape Gateway


### AWS Transfer Family
a fully managed AWS service that enables you to securely transfer files over commonly used protocols like SFTP 
(Secure File Transfer Protocol), FTPS (File Transfer Protocol Secure), and FTP (File Transfer Protocol). This service allows you to easily move data into and out of **Amazon S3 or EFS** without needing to manage your own file transfer infrastructure.


### Data Sync
AWS DataSync is a service that helps you move large amounts of data quickly and securely between your on-premises storage (like your office servers) and the AWS cloud.

1. **Fast Data Transfer**:
  - DataSync is much faster than traditional methods for moving data. It’s designed to speed up the process of getting your files into the cloud.

2. **Supports Different Storage Types**:
  - You can use DataSync to move data between:
    - **Your local servers** (using NFS or SMB file systems).
    - on prem
    - **Amazon S3**: A cloud storage service for storing files. (any type include glacier)
    - **Amazon EFS**: A cloud-based file storage that grows with your needs.
    - **Amazon FSx**: A service for managing Windows file servers in the cloud.

3. **Automated Transfers**:
  - You can schedule DataSync to automatically move your data at regular intervals. This is great for keeping your cloud storage up to date or for backing up your files.

### Difference
- AWS Storage Gateway: Acts as a bridge between your on-premises storage and the AWS cloud. It allows your existing applications to seamlessly access and use cloud storage without needing to change how they operate. It's like extending your local storage into the cloud.

- AWS Transfer Family: Uses standard FTP protocols (SFTP, FTPS, FTP) to securely transfer files between your on-premises systems and Amazon S3 or EFS. It's great for integrating with legacy systems or for securely exchanging files with business partners.

- AWS DataSync: A high-speed service for transferring large amounts of data either from on-premises to AWS or between AWS storage services (like from S3 to EFS). It's designed for fast, automated, and scalable data migrations and backups.
