---
title: "SAA-C03 Day 6 | RDS, Aurora, ElasticCache"
date: 2024-08-11 00:00:00
categories: [AWS, SAA-C03]
tags: [RDS]
---

## RDS

### Overview
- Automated provisioning, OS patching
- Continuous backup and restore to specific timestamp
- Multi AZ & Read Replicas
- Scaling Capability (Horizontal or Vertical) - Compute power

### RDS Read Replica vs Multi AZ
1. Read Replica
   - Up to 15 Read Replica (either within AZ, cross AZ, or Cross Region)
   - Async , reads are eventually consistent
   - Replica can become actual DB
   - each Replica has its own endpoint
   - Run some report or analytics, but dont want to affect production application

2. Multi AZ (Disaster Recovery)
- SYNC Replication
- one DNS name: automatic failover
- No manual intervention
- Read Replica can be set as Multi AZ for DR
- **Zero down time** from Single AZ to Multi AZ
  1. a snapshot taken
  2. new DB restore from snapshot in a New AZ
  3. Sync established


### RDS Custom
- Only for **Managed Oracle** & **Microsoft SQL Server DB** with OS and db customization
- Custom part:
  - access to the underlying db and OS
  - configure setting
  - install patches
  - enable native feature
  - ssh to instance
- need to deactivate the automation mode

---

## Amazon Aurora
### Overview
- Support MySQL and Postgres
- High Performance (5x more than MySQL RDS, 3x more than Postgres RDS), 
- Auto High Availability and Auto Read Scaling (if choose high availability)
- also can have 15 read replica (but process is faster)
- Replica and primary shared resource in the same AZ

### High Availability & Read Scaling
- 6 copies of data across 3 AZ (2 copies of each AZ)
- **One Write Instance:** Only one instance (primary instance) in the Aurora cluster is responsible for writing data.
- **Automatic Failover:** If the primary instance fails, Aurora automatically promotes one of the read replicas to be the new primary instance, taking over write operations without manual intervention.
- **Auto Scaling:** can define auto scaling policy when read replica experience high CPU (horizontal scale)
- **Custom Endpoint:** can define a subset of Aurora instance as Custom Endpoint (they might have strong power) can run some analytic query

### Good to know
- The 6 copies of data across three AZs are not accessed directly by your application. They exist to support failover, synchronization, and data durability.
- Your application primarily interacts with the primary instance via its endpoint for both reads and writes, and optionally with read replicas if you've created them for read scalability.

### Aurora Serverless (RDS Proxy)
Use **RDS Proxy** for Connection Management:
  - High-Concurrency Applications: If your application has high connection churn, such as serverless architectures (e.g., AWS Lambda) or microservices, using RDS Proxy can help manage connections efficiently. It pools and reuses connections, reducing the overhead of opening and closing database connections.
  1. Connection Pooling
     - **Pooling Database Connections:** RDS Proxy creates and manages a pool of database connections that can be shared across multiple applications or instances. Instead of each application or Lambda function creating its own database connection, they connect to the proxy, which then manages and reuses a smaller number of actual database connections.
     - **Benefits:** This reduces the overhead associated with establishing and tearing down connections, especially in environments with many short-lived connections
  2. Improved Security:
     - **IAM Authentication:** RDS Proxy supports IAM-based authentication, which allows you to manage database access securely using AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) without needing to store database credentials in your application.
     - **Integration with AWS Secrets Manager:** RDS Proxy can automatically rotate and securely store database credentials in AWS Secrets Manager. The proxy retrieves and uses these credentials to connect to the database, further enhancing security.
  3. Use case Lambda:
     - Lambda Integration: RDS Proxy is particularly useful in serverless architectures, such as those using AWS Lambda. Lambda functions often need to open and close database connections quickly, which can overwhelm a database. RDS Proxy maintains a warm pool of connections, reducing the latency typically associated with opening new connections in Lambda.
  4. **never public access**
  5. RDS Proxy is associated with a single database instance or a cluster (in the case of Aurora, where you might have multiple read replicas). The proxy manages connections to this specific database or cluster, and it does not route connections to different databases.
  6. Amazon RDS Proxy can differentiate between read and write operations


### Global Aurora Database
- 1 Primary Region, up to 5 secondary(read only) regions
- up to 16 read replicas each secondary region
- can promoting secondary region takes RTO < 1 minute

---

## RDS & Aurora Backup

| Feature/Option                     | RDS                                             | Aurora                                             |
|------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|
| **Automated Backup**               | - Daily snapshots during a specified backup window<br>- Captures transaction logs every 5 minutes for point-in-time recovery<br>- Retention period: 1 to 35 days (can be disabled) | - Daily snapshots during a specified backup window<br>- Captures transaction logs for point-in-time recovery<br>- Retention period: 1 to 35 days (cannot be disabled) |
| **Manual DB Snapshots**            | - Retention for as long as needed<br>- Can stop RDS but still pay for storage<br>- For long-term storage, take a snapshot and restore when needed | - Retention for as long as needed<br>- Can stop Aurora but still pay for storage<br>- For long-term storage, take a snapshot and restore when needed |
| **Restore Options**                | - Snapshot restore<br>- Restore from S3 (for on-prem backup) | - Snapshot restore<br>- Restore from S3 (using XtraBackup for backup) |
| **Aurora Database Cloning**        | N/A                                             | - Create a new Aurora DB Cluster from an existing one<br>- Faster than snapshot & restore<br>- Used for staging databases |


---


## ElastiCache 

### Overview
- In-Memory Data Store: Managed Redis or Memcached
- Use case: Web Session Storage, Database Caching, Real-Time Analytics

### Redis vs Memcache

| Feature                      | Redis                        | Memcached                      |
|------------------------------|------------------------------|--------------------------------|
| **Multi-AZ with Failover**    | Yes                          | No                             |
| **High Availability**         | Yes                          | No                             |
| **Backup and Restore**        | Yes                          | No                             |
| **Data Structures Supported** | Sets, Sorted Sets, and more  | Key-Value pairs only           |
| **Supports IAM**              | Yes                          | No                             |
| **Sharding**                  | No                           | Yes                            |
| **High Availability**         | Yes                          | No                             |
| **Backup and Restore**        | Yes                          | No                             |
| **Architecture**              | Single-threaded              | Multi-threaded                 |
